All right, now we're gonna talk a bit
about structuring custom properties.
And this is the part where it's
a bit more design systemy,
cuz there's different types of
custom properties that you can have.
And this is the one step I
debated including this or not,
cuz it does take a little bit longer to
get into getting into our project still.
But this is the one phase where I really
feel that idea of customization and
adaptability, this is the most important
step you can take along the way.
In the design system world, what we've
created so far, they're called primitives.
Where we have brown 400,
brown 500, brown 600.
You're just saying it's brown, it's
lighter, it's darker, something like that.
The next stage after that, and there's,
I think, three stages in real design
systems, but we're just going to
be going to the semantic layer.
So instead of having things and a semantic
layer's describing what it's being
used for, and
it can feel setting all of this up,
can feel like it's a lot of work to
be going through and doing this.
But again, in the big picture,
on to make your project a little bit more
maintainable, I really do
feel like it's worth doing,
where you have another set of custom
properties that are all looking at
that original custom
properties that you created.
And as much as possible, when you're using
your custom properties in your project,
you don't wanna use any of your primitives
you only wanna be using the semantic ones.
And we'll sorta explain
explore why that is and
how this makes life a little bit easier.
So this is at the stage where you
literally, if we go back to our you would
go into your Figma file, and
you would look at things.
And so here, if I'm looking at this
design, I see I have this text color here,
I have a white text, and
I have a bit more of a subdued text.
The subdued text tends to be the one
that's being used most often through my
project for paragraph text,
though, it does go back and
forth a little bit between that and
the pure white.
So you could go either way with this, but
what I would do is by looking through this
and looking at all the different ways
things are being used, I could then come
into my code, and this is where the syntax
highlighting breaks a little bit.
If you go after this, which is what
I'd wanna do, if I come here and
I start doing more custom properties,
so to say, I said text.
And we'll do font size for a sec.
No, we'll do color.
So I can say, like text,
we'll just do regular for now.
And then I would say, that's my var.
And then I would choose,
that would be my brown 800, I think it is.
So I would say that the regular
text should be the brown 800.
You'll notice this is just VS Code
not keeping up with modern CSS yet.
So after the media query,
with nesting, for some reason,
the syntax highlighting breaks.
That bothers me a little bit.
So it's easy enough to come in here and
make another root selector, and then just
keep on going, and then it doesn't break
anything, it doesn't change anything.
It won't cause any issues
whatsoever in your project.
So you could have text regular, or text
base, anything like that, just to say,
like this is the main text color, text
main, any name like that would be fine.
You're just sorta saying this
is my body even if you wanted,
come in with a name that signifies
to you how it should be being used.
What's the purpose of this rather
than this is the color that it is?
And then we could come and
have a text high contrast and
that one could be my var color white.
So that way, we're, again,
this is high contrast text, and
we're using it that way.
And it's just a question
of going through and
finding all the different ways
the different things will be being used.
The background colors are another one,
and so I could come in with
a background-color, we'll call it main or
bass, or whatever you wanna call it.
And in this case, I would look at my Figma
file and I would choose the color that I
feel like is most commonly, probably the
one on my background, sorry on my body.
What would the background
color on my body be?
And when I look at this,
I just see at the top.
I have this brown color coming through.
It's the same brown color here.
Now's are different, but
it's the same one here.
So this color tends to be the one for
me that is the most commonly used one, but
once again, I did give the versions that
I'll be using right there for those.
So my main is the color that is the main
color, the one that I'll set in my body,
and then I have a light and
extra light and a dark and an extra dark.
And just makes it easy when I'm looking at
something I'm not trying to remember is on
that other,
I need a darker background color.
I don't remember if it was a 600 or
a 500 that I used, but
I know I need something darker for
this section.
I probably remember if it's my main or
my light.
It's easier remembering sort of
keywords and numbers necessarily,
especially if you have
these really big systems.
Some of the really big systems you have,
you might have 20 versions of one color,
and knowing which one to use for
a background color can be a nightmare.
So by setting things up like this,
it just makes life a lot easier.
So once again, if you want,
you can grab them all from here and
it's just going through the text.
Brand and brand light, as well.
In that case, for these two, the reason
I chose brand and brand light is, well,
I mean it's sort of describing
what they're being used for.
I think it's actually pretty
straightforward for all of them.
And then I'm doing the same thing for the
headings where we have the heading small,
heading regular, heading large, extra
large, and then the font size is here.
So I'm doing it.
If it's a font size, then it's just
my body text or paragraph styles.
And if I put heading, it means
it's gonna be used on my headings.
And it just makes my life a little bit
easier than trying to remember the numbers
that I'll be using along the way.
And again, by having these two things as
separate layers, it makes the projects
a lot more easy to make adaptable and
changeable along the way.
The one thing I'll say actually a little
bit of inconsistency here that I had SM,
LG and Excel, but I wrote regular here.
If you'd rather come in with an RG or
just write the full name out, you can.
The other thing people might not like
here is that I'm using really long,
descriptive names cuz people
like less keystrokes.
I like doing it this way,
cuz it separates my primitives from
the ones I'll be using my project.
So I know that if I'm looking for
a font size, hyphen, hyphen,
I write the word font, and then I'll
just see all my font sizes come up.
And so that's the reason that I do it
with the longer version like this,
rather than coming through and, yeah,
I prefer writing things out a bit longer.
It takes a few extra keystrokes to do it,
but
it makes it more clear
what it's being used for.
I hate going into a system and then trying
to remember all the abbreviated versions
of what things are, and
then you go into a new project and
they decided to use
different abbreviations.
It just drives me nuts.
So I'm I'm a big fan of being verbose,
even if it takes a few more keystrokes.
It just makes it more
clear what everything is.
So what I would actually suggest if you
want is to dive in, and if you wanna use
the same ones I'm gonna be using, they are
in the course portal that's right here.
You might find other
things in the Figma file.
There's other things we might have
to add as we're going through or
you might wanna come up with a slightly
different naming convention for yourself.
These names might not be
names that resonate with you.
You might want shorter versions of
the names or other things along the way.
There's the tags that are in there.
You might think about how you'd set those
up cuz they don't have any colors for
those as one example.
So if you wanna poke around in the Figma
file for maybe about five minutes,
come in, you can bring these in,
play around with them,
use them a little bit, just to see
if it makes sense in how they're
working with the current
content we have on the page.
We don't have a lot, but
at least you can experiment and
play with it a little bit,
and then in five minutes,
we'll move on and
start actually using some of these things.
>> Kevin Powell: I'm just gonna
grab the ones that I had here for
the sake of gravity, and
bring them into the root right here.
Ooh, whoops, let's do that again, copy,
>> Kevin Powell: Select
all of them and paste that in.
There we go,
just to overwrite those other ones.
And then this same thing,
I did provide the font sizes here.
And we talked with that a bit before,
so I'm just gonna grab those and
bring them into my project.
And we wanna still be in
the root right there.
And, again, the nice thing with Prettier
is it takes care of the indentation for
us along the way.
And with that done and
having all the custom properties in there,
it's finally time to start
flying some of these styles and
actually getting our site to
look the way we want it to.
So, I did mention looking around for
other things.
There's one of the things that I
said that I would find useful.
Or I think I would find useful here
would be for border radiuses as well
just cuz there are consistent border
radiuses throughout the project.
Sometimes they're very large,
sometimes they're a bit small
sometimes they're a lot smaller.
And so I came in with these a little
bit on the naming of these again, and
the inconsistencies for
my own way of working is,
I like numbering my border radiuses
instead of saying small, medium, large.
If you prefer small, medium,
large, or anything like that,
by all means, come in with
the names that for you make sense.
It probably makes more sense to use
those just because I've been using that
naming here.
But I'm stuck in my ways because
of how I've always worked.
So whenever I do border radius,
I always just think of a number.
So that's why I'm doing it this way, cuz
I'm guessing that question would come up.